# .NET

Under the overall .NET banner are:

* .NET Framework - windows only, becoming obsolete
* .NET Core - new cross-platform

Also important terms to get your head around:

* CLR - Common Language Runtime - this is the 'interpreter?' which converts c# to machine-readable code
* BCL or FCL - Base Class Library or Framework Class Library - essentially bits of pre-written code.

These are both bundled with .NET SDK.

# CLI (Command Line Interface)

## Basic .NET commands

To find out about the installation of .NET you can use the basic command:

```
dotnet --info
```
To get a list of commands, it's 'help' or:

```
dotnet -h
```

A `project` is essentially a collection of source code files.  To create a new project file from the CLI.  Type the below to see the required options.

```
dotnet new
```

For each type, it will create the required basic project structure.

### Note on folder structure for new projects

All source code is normally stored under a folder called `src`.  At the same level we're including a test folder.  Within `src`, create a folder name for the project, and create a new project (aka all the relevant files and folders) within that.

## dotnet run

to run a project you can pass the project folder location like so:

```
dotnet run --project <path>
```

the path can be relative to the current folder.  If you are in the current folder, then you can simply type dotnet run.

### What happens in dotnet run

* `dotnet restore` looks through the file for external dependencies and checks that they are available.
* `dotnet build` compliles (and links?) the code.  Compiles to a `*.dll`. This means dynamic link library, but in .net core, it's worth thinking of this as an assembly.  It builds automatically to `\bin\debug\netcoreapp3.1\`.

> The bin and obj files can be safely deleted as they are created by the `dotnet build` process.

When trying to open the .dll from the command line, it won't run and will say it can't find `system.runtime` - this is the .NET core runtime that it's looking for.  Doing `dotnet run` will run with .NET core or you can pass the file path to the compiled code as a parameter to the dotnet program:

```
dotnet bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.1\GradeBook.dll
```

## NuGet

Package manager for things that aren't part of the core library (BCL).

