## Arrays of strings and concat

You can do things in the below way, as you might expect:
```cs
Console.WriteLine("Hello " + args[0] + "!");
```

Or you can use string interpolation.  Place the dollar sign at the start and then you can put an expression in curly braces so you don't need to break up the string:

```cs
Console.WriteLine($"Hello {args[0]}!");
```

The parameters for `Main` can be passed straight to the program.  When running in cmd, you can pass parameters to the dotnet application as well as the the application you're running so you need to separate these. You do so with a `--` as follows:

```
dotnet run -- Mike
```

## The C# VS Code extension
The addin creates a .vscode folder within your project (by pop-up request).  This creates a launch.json, which provide config parameters to the debugger, including the args option, so args can be entered directly here.

## Declaring variables

To simply declare:

```cs
double varName;
double[] arrName;
```

You can also instantiate in the same statement.  You have to provide a size for an array:

```cs
double varName = 2.2;
double[] arrName = new double[1];   //This is setting the size (not the largest index)
// or
double[] arrName = new double[]{1.1, 2.2} //This is providing a number of values which defines the size
```

### Implicitly typed variables

Theres also the option to use the `var` keyword instead of explicity typing the variable.

A variable declared using `var` is however, still statically typed.  This means if you declare with `var` and then assign a value `1.234`, the variable will be implicitly typed as a `double`.  Once it has been typed, a value of a different type e.g. a string, cannot be assigned to it.


## Mathematical operations

```cs
double number = 1.23;
double anotherNumber = 5.64;
double sum;

sum = sum + number;
sum = sum + anotherNumber;

//This could be re-written as:

sum += number;
sum += anotherNumber;

```

## For Each

```cs
foreach(double dblValue in arrDoubles)
{
    //some action
}
```
