>In C# everything is `by value` by default, unless you specify otherwise.

## Reference Type

Example:

```cs
Book b = new Book("Grades");
```
When you create this, `b` is a reference type.  This means that it's physical space in memory actually contains a reference to another part of memory where the contents of the Book object ("Grades") is stored.  This is a pointer, basically.

> Any variable defined as a class is a reference type.

## Value Type
```cs
int x = 3
```
Integers, for example are a value type.  The value `3` is simply stored.  `x` refers directly to the space in memory that contains the `3`.

> Any struct is a value type.  Need to learn when to use these.

## The confusing bit about value references to objects

However, if you pass an object reference to a method, you are only passing the *reference* by value.  It is still a reference, so you are not passing the object by value. This means that when you call the object methods you are still talking about the same object, you're just accessing it from a different reference point in memory (which points to the same place).

However however - you can pass by ref using the `ref` keyword, like so:

```cs
public void CSharpCanPassByRef()
{
    Book book1 = new Book("Book 1");
    GetBookSetName(ref book1,"New Name"); //Use ref here as well as in the
                                          //params of the method being called
    Assert.Equal("New Name",book1.Name);
}

private void GetBookSetName(ref Book book, string name) 
{   //book here is now a reference to a reference to an object
    book = new Book(name);
}
```

So, you referencing a reference to an object.  So when you try an carry out an action on `book` the variable says: `the object you're looking for is at this location` then you go there and it says `oh sorry, actually the object you're looking for is at this location`.  In the example above it would essentially overwrite the existing `book1` with a new book object (with a new name as specified).


## Out keyword

The `out` keyword also passess by reference, but with `out` the compiler assumes that the incoming reference has not been initialized.  So you have to assign something to it in the method before you leave the method.

## Identifying a type with VS Code

When your cursor is on the keyword for a variable type e.g. `int`, you can press F12 to see the metadata for that type. If it's a **struct**, it's a **value** type and if it's a **class** it's a **reference** type.